HTTP Client errors docs for iOS (#5702)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/platforms/apple/common/configuration/http-client-errors.mdx

---
title: HTTP Client Errors
sidebar_order: 13
description: "This feature, once enabled, automatically captures HTTP client errors, like bad response codes, as error events and reports them to Sentry"
---

> This feature, once enabled, automatically captures HTTP client errors, like bad response codes, as error events and reports them to Sentry. The error event will contain the `request` and `response` data, such as `url`, `status_code`, and so on.

Reviewer: Rearranging this to cut down on commas

```suggestion
Once enabled, this feature automatically captures HTTP client errors, like bad response codes, as error events and reports them to Sentry. The error event will contain the `request` and `response` data, such as `url`, `status_code`, and so on.
```

> This feature is opt-in and can be enabled by setting the `enableCaptureFailedRequests` option to `true`:

Reviewer: Avoiding the repetition of "this feature" as the beginning of three sections in a row.

```suggestion
Sending HTTP client errors is an opt-in feature and can be enabled by setting the `enableCaptureFailedRequests` option to `true`:
```

```swift {tabTitle:Swift}
import Sentry

SentrySDK.start { options in
    options.dsn = "___PUBLIC_DSN___"
    options.enableCaptureFailedRequests = true
}
```

```objc {tabTitle:Objective-C}
@import Sentry;

[SentrySDK startWithConfigureOptions:^(SentryOptions *options) {
    options.dsn = @"___PUBLIC_DSN___";
    options.enableCaptureFailedRequests = YES;
}];
```

> This feature requires the setting `enableSwizzling` to be enabled as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use this feature, you must also enable the `enableSwizzling` setting.
```

> To use this feature, you must also enable the `enableSwizzling` setting.

Reviewer 2: `m`: `enableSwizzling` is enabled by default. I think we don't need to mention it here.

By default, only HTTP client errors with a response code between `500` and `599` are captured as error events, but you can change this behavior by setting the `failedRequestStatusCodes` option:

```swift {tabTitle:Swift}
import Sentry

SentrySDK.start { options in
    options.dsn = "___PUBLIC_DSN___"
    let httpStatusCodeRange = HttpStatusCodeRange(min: 400, max: 599)
    options.failedRequestStatusCodes = [ httpStatusCodeRange ]
}
```

```objc {tabTitle:Objective-C}
@import Sentry;

[SentrySDK startWithConfigureOptions:^(SentryOptions *options) {
    options.dsn = @"___PUBLIC_DSN___";
    SentryHttpStatusCodeRange *httpStatusCodeRange =
            [[SentryHttpStatusCodeRange alloc] initWithMin:400 max:599];
    options.failedRequestStatusCodes = @[ httpStatusCodeRange ];
}];
```

> HTTP client errors from every target (`.*` regular expression) are automatically captured, but you can change this behavior by setting the `failedRequestTargets` option with either a regular expression or a plain `String`. A plain string must contain at least one of the items from the list. Plain strings don't have to be full matches, meaning the URL of a request is matched when it contains a string provided through the option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
HTTP client errors from every target (`.*` regular expression) are automatically captured, but you can change this behavior by setting the `failedRequestTargets` option with either a regular expression or a plain `String`. A plain string must contain at least one of the items from the list. Plain strings don't have to be full matches, meaning the URL of a request is matched when it contains a string provided through the option:
```

```swift {tabTitle:Swift}
import Sentry

SentrySDK.start { options in
    options.dsn = "___PUBLIC_DSN___"
    options.failedRequestTargets = [ "www.example.com" ]
}
```

```objc {tabTitle:Objective-C}
@import Sentry;

[SentrySDK startWithConfigureOptions:^(SentryOptions *options) {
    options.dsn = @"___PUBLIC_DSN___";
    options.failedRequestTargets = @[ @"www.example.com" ];
}];
```

> Error events may contain PII data, such as `Headers` and `Cookies`, Sentry already does data scrubbing by default, but you can scrub any data before it is sent, learn more about it in the [Scrubbing Sensitive Data docs](/platforms/apple/guides/ios/data-management/sensitive-data/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Error events may contain PII data, such as `Headers` and `Cookies`. Sentry already does data scrubbing by default, but you can scrub any data before it is sent. Learn more in [Scrubbing Sensitive Data](/platforms/apple/guides/ios/data-management/sensitive-data/).
```

> Those events are searchable and you can set alerts on them if you use the `http.url` and `http.status_code` properties. Learn more in our full [Searchable Properties](/product/sentry-basics/search/searchable-properties/) documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These events are searchable and you can set alerts on them if you use the `http.url` and `http.status_code` properties. Learn more in our full [Searchable Properties](/product/sentry-basics/search/searchable-properties/) documentation.
```
